#Assignment 5: linear models

To test my hypotheses: "Can you predict alpha diversity based on age?" and "Can you predict alpha diversity based on sample type?" I used linear regression models and diagnostic plots to answer these questions.  
Results from the first hypothesis indicate the model between alpha diversity and age is poor due to an insignificant p-value of 0.1372. The residual vs fitted plot indicates there are no non-linear relationships between diversity and age and the normal Q-Q plot indicates the residuals are normally distributed because they follow a straight line. The scale-location plot indicates there is no heteroscedasticity, meaning there is equal variance because the residuals appear to be randomnly spread.Lastly, the residuals vs leverage plot indicate ~5 outliers in the data because they pass Cook's distance and are influential to the regression results. The best approach for this would be to remove them and investigate how they affect the analysis - I was not sure how to remove the outliers past Cook's distance line because they were not labelled.

Results from the second hypothesis indicate the model between alpha diversity and oral samples donated is strong, due to a significant p-value of 0.01502 (i.e. >= 0.05), which was expected. The summary of the linear regression model shows an intercept between diversity and sample type -saliva, but not sample type -nasal which I am uncertain about. Since the response variable is categorical, the residuals are not spread equally but rather in 2 categories. There are no non-linear relationships between diversity and sample type and the normal Q-Q plot indicates normal distribution, or a linear relationship because the residuals follow a straight line. The scale-location plot shows relatively equal variance because the line is almost linear, but the residuals are again plotted in 2 categories. Lastly, there are again ~5 outliers in the residuals vs leverage plot that are influential to the data and should be removed.