#Assignment 5: Permutation tests

JD: We know that everything is different, so these are not good questions. The questions should be about kinds, sizes, or directions of differences, not about whether things are different. Note also that your hypotheses are not scientific hypotheses at all: you don't say you think something will happen for a reason.

Hypothesis 1a: Are the nasal and saliva swabs compositionally different from one another due to sampling site? 
  Hypothesis 1b:Are the nasal and saliva swabs compositionally different from one another due to sex(M/F)?
  In order to test this hypothesis, I performed a permutation test using the adonis function and bray - curtis dissimilarity as the distance measure.
I used adonis because it allows for a formal partitioning across a multivariate data set to compare community composition within the sample sites. 
The results indicate there is an 18% variation and 0.83% variation between the samples that is accounted for by sample type and sex(m/f), respectively. 
There is statistical significance with a p-value of <= 0.001*** and <= 0.029*, therefore I would fail to reject both of the null hypotheses.

JD: No, you would reject them since P is low. You fail to reject if P is not low.

Hypothesis 2: Does diversity vary over sampling time (Baseline versus Follow Up)?
  In order to test this hypothesis I used a Brute force permutation test and used alpha diversity, Shannon metric as the diversity measure.
I calculated the difference between means of alpha diversity for each sample and sampling time point: Baseline (Oct-Dec) vs Follow Up (April-June).
The results indicate there is a strong correlation between diversity and time, with a two- tailed p-value of >= 0.0009999, therefore I would fail
to reject the null hypothesis.

JD: Why "correlation"? Do you just mean that the sampling times are different? What do you mean by "for each sample"? What's different about the time points that this might happen, or might be interesting?

Grade: 1.9/3
